Another way SCM is integral to the success of businesses
is by reducing overall operating costs.
A primary way of doing this is by decreasing the purchasing
cost of materials.
Prime Vendors, or PV, employ strategies to quickly deliver
expensive products and avoid holding costly inventories
in stores any longer than necessary.
For example, Cardinal provides gowns to hospitals across
the country, as a result of the volume and to the bulk
of this item, it is essential that forecasting is accurate,
otherwise skids of gowns will sit in the PV warehouses
and take up valuable real estate that could be used
to house other items, thus creating higher
cost to the PV to store.
In order for supply chains to work effectively
and efficiently, logistics staff need to decrease
the total cost to manage the supply chain.
By doing this, staff can meet customer expectations
by having the right product in the right amount
on hand when needed for patient care.
Staff can also have the Prime Vendor schedule, plan
and supply needed items to the facility without
overstocking or stock outages.
For example, if real levels are set in the primary
and secondary areas, then this will impact the true
needs of the facility when you scan and get a list
of items to order from the PV.
As a result, this should cut down on the automated
orders such as ordering the same amount every
week because that is the way it was always done.
The old behavior leads to overstocking,
long supply, and possibly stock outages if the
PV does not have enough to send.